How the world reacted to Trump's Jerusalem decision
Top Palestinian officials condemned US President Donald Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital, saying the decision would bolster extremists' calls for holy wars and delegitimize the United States as an arbiter in the peace process.
Protests erupt in West Bank, CNN reporter there amid tear gas
CNN's Ian Lee reports from Ramallah in the West Bank as protesters respond to President Trump's Jerusalem decision.
For Palestinians, Trump's move is the end of the peace process
At the UN General Assembly in September, US President Donald Trump and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas made a joint appearance before the world's media.
White House admits decision could derail peace process
President Donald Trump's decision Wednesday to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital has temporarily derailed the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, two senior White House officials acknowledged after Trump's speech.
Why the move is so controversial

What on earth is going on with bitcoin?

U.S. hits Vietnam with tariffs over Chinese steel

Gulf Arab trade bloc at risk as rifts widen

Should Elon Musk merge Tesla and SpaceX?

Want to study abroad? It'll cost you

10 ways to change the world
Their missions vary greatly: To provide loving homes for orphaned children, feed those in crisis or  mend war's psychological wounds.
Meet people helping their communities
Meet 10 everyday people doing extraordinary things to change the world. Cast your vote for CNN Hero of the Year at CNNHeroes.com and watch CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute, Sunday, Dec. 17 at 8pm ET
Vote for your favorite!

Ready to trade up? Find out how much your home is worth

San Diego homes for sale

Getting ready to sell? Find out what your home is worth now

Your hero could be a CNN Hero!
They're your friends, your colleagues, or someone you admire -- and they're doing extraordinary work to help others. Now we need YOU to tell us about them!
CNN Heroes Legal Disclosures 2018
Eligibility:  In order to be eligible for the CNN Heroes Awards Program (the "Awards Program"), nominees must be at least 13 years of age or older as of 12/1/17
UN Security Council condemns 'heinous abuses' of Libyan slave trade
The United Nations Security Council sharply condemned reports of the human slave trade in Libya on Thursday, saying the acts amount to "heinous abuses of human rights."
Your hero could be a CNN Hero!
They're your friends, your colleagues, or someone you admire -- and they're doing extraordinary work to help others. Now we need YOU to tell us about them!

Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel "makes it more difficult [for the US] play a role to relaunch a peace process," EU Foreign Policy Chief Federica Mogherini says.
Pan Am Flight 103 Fast Facts
Read CNN's Fast Facts on the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.

Filling in for Jimmy Kimmel on his show, Tracee Ellis Ross debuted "The Handsy Man" to outline how to avoid sexually harassing women.



Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi explains Jordan is "extremely concerned" about the consequences of President Donald Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

American skiers Lindsey Vonn and Mikaela Shiffrin speak out against Russian doping, backing the IOC's decision to ban the country from next year's Winter Olympics.

The Australian Parliament celebrated with singing and flags after it voted to legalize same-sex marriage.

Palestinians living in refugee camps in Lebanon say they hope to return home someday, and tell CNN's Ben Wedeman that despite whatever Arab leaders say, they are largely indifferent to the symbolism of President Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

In Puglia, Italy, many migrant workers are living in squalid conditions, exploited by a corrupt system of middlemen who control their access to work.
