China's 'sexy cyborg' took on Silicon Valley bro culture — and won
There’s no mistaking Naomi Wu amid Shenzhen’s deliverymen and investors. Her long, auburn-dyed hair falls over tight, low-cut tops; her miniskirts reveal more. Wu often wears these outfits in do-it-yourself videos that show her devising an LED-lit skirt or creating heels that hide hacking tools....
Protests flare on 'day of rage' by Palestinians after Trump's Jerusalem pronouncement
Protests erupted throughout the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and cities across the Middle East on Thursday in what was dubbed a “day of rage” after President Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Trump announced on Wednesday that he would “officially recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s...
Taiwan has statues of him everywhere. Now many want Chiang Kai-shek's image removed
Across Taiwan, his image and name are everywhere — on statues and street signs and at a lavish memorial hall in the capital. Chiang Kai-shek was long heralded as a national hero who worked to unify China and fought both the Japanese and the communists. But now many Taiwanese view Chiang as a despot...
Trump's declaration of Jerusalem as Israel's capital sparks anger across Muslim world and beyond
Fresh anger poured in from across the Muslim world Wednesday as President Trump said the United States recognizes Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, a move that Arab and European leaders have warned could spark violence and destroy any hopes of reviving the Mideast peace process. Israel responded with...
Trump says U.S. recognizes Jerusalem as capital of Israel, upending U.S. policy and sparking protests
Saying that “old challenges demand new approaches,” President Trump announced Wednesday that the United States will recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and will begin a process to transfer the U.S. Embassy to the ancient city, reversing decades of American policy and defying widespread...
A young corruption investigator is killed in Afghanistan. Why didn't his U.S.-trained agency do more to protect him?
When 22-year-old Almar Habibzai was shot outside his house in Kabul, it raised troubling questions about the leadership of the FBI-trained Major Crimes Task Force.
Trump expected to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital, angering Arab allies
With President Trump poised to do what no other president has been willing to do — move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem — leaders and analysts in the region warned Tuesday that it could spur insecurity and instability in a part of the world already beset by both. Fulfilling an oft-repeataed...
In Honduras, electoral board agrees to opposition demands for partial recount
Honduran electoral authorities on Tuesday agreed to opposition demands for a recount of returns from more than 5,000 polling places, representing almost 30% of all voting sites in last week’s disputed presidential election. “We are going to review the [ballots], and if there are discrepancies we...
Deposed strongman Ali Abdullah Saleh killed after switching sides in Yemen's war
Ali Abdullah Saleh, the deposed strongman who led Yemen for more than three decades and colluded with Iran-aligned rebels to topple his successor, was killed Monday as fighting raged between his followers and their former allies, according to officials on both sides. Saleh’s death removes one of...
Incumbent president leads in disputed Honduran elections, but no winner declared
Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez, seeking a second term in office, continued to hold a slim lead Monday as officials largely completed the count in disputed national balloting. But eight days after the voting, authorities had yet to proclaim a winner as the opposition continued to allege...
Britain hoped to initial a 'Brexit' deal, but an old controversy — the border in Ireland — forced a setback
The Irish border question took center stage in Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union on Monday, causing a major setback for Prime Minister Theresa May, who had hoped to conclude an initial agreement but instead was forced to acknowledge talks had faltered. Eighteen months after the...
Protesters against inequality occupied vacant land in Brazil. Now they're a mini-city of 8,000 families
The first 500 arrived at sunrise. They trooped past the handful of homes on their left, up the dusty hill at the end of the street and through the single row of sparse trees to the vacant lot, plastic tarps folded under their arms and wooden posts in hand. While some quickly mounted makeshift shacks...
How a chance meeting with Einstein led to the accidental start of a unique photography career
In 1948, Marilyn Stafford, a young aspiring actress in New York City, tagged along with two friends who traveled to Princeton to film a documentary about Albert Einstein. As they pulled up in front of Einstein’s New Jersey home, one of the friends tossed a 35-millimeter camera to Stafford sitting...
U.S. airstrikes rise sharply in Afghanistan — and so do civilian deaths
Residents of a farming area in eastern Afghanistan say 10 villagers were killed when a U.S. airstrike hit their truck in August. The U.S. military has pushed back strongly against reports of civilian casualties.
Worried that their election is being stolen, Hondurans take to the streets in droves
Thousands of opposition backers waving banners and shouting anti-government ballads marched through the streets of the Honduran capital Sunday in a boisterous but peaceful repudiation of the administration of President Juan Orlando Hernandez. The mostly young demonstrators repeated the president’s...
Russia investigation sheds new light on Jared Kushner's involvement with Moscow
The expanding federal investigation into Russian interference in last year’s election is shining new light on the central role played by one member of President Trump’s inner circle — his son-in-law and top advisor Jared Kushner — in reaching out to Moscow. The latest disclosure — that even before...
A 40% price cut hasn't helped Uber in Africa’s biggest economy
For the past two years, Frederick Aguinede has spent most of his time behind the wheels of cars he will never own. He wakes before dawn, turns on his Uber app and doesn’t return to his apartment until long after dusk — usually clocking more than 12 hours on the road each day. On paper, it looks...
CIA directors past and present spar over President Trump's tweets
President Trump’s provocative use of social media — including his recent retweeting of three anti-Muslim videos from a far-right British fringe group — could put lives at risk, according to one former CIA director. The agency’s current director, meanwhile, countered that Trump’s tweets have helped...
Yemen's deposed strongman says he is open to talks with Saudi coalition
Yemen’s deposed strongman Ali Abdullah Saleh called Saturday for a popular revolt against his former rebel allies and said he was open to dialogue with the coalition of Persian Gulf states they have been battling for more than two years. Saleh’s offer to “open a new page” with the Saudi Arabia-led...
Human rights groups denounce Honduras curfew as presidential vote count drags on
An uneasy calm fell over this Central American capital Saturday as police and soldiers enforced a curfew imposed following days of protests and unrest in the aftermath of disputed national elections. The final results of presidential balloting last Sunday remained unclear as the opposition demanded...
Honduras declares curfew as street violence persists amid disputed election count
The government of Honduras declared a nationwide curfew late Friday in an effort to quell an outbreak of violent street clashes, road blockades and looting that have followed last Sunday’s disputed presidential election. The imposition of a curfew for 10 days between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. — suspending...
She begged him not to leave Mexico again. But the lure of America was powerful, and deadly
Agustín Poblete Ortega knew that sneaking into the United States had become more dangerous than ever. Yet he yearned for paychecks that would allow him to save a little, instead of just barely scraping by. "This is the last time," he promised his younger brother before he left.
In Mexico, they made a new American dream — minus their kids
When the Almanzas returned to their hometown of Malinalco in 2012, they were not alone. Census data shows more than 1 million Mexicans and their families left the U.S. for Mexico between 2009 and 2014, and fewer made their way north, a demographic shift that is reshaping the immigration equation.
For a deported man and his family, an uneasy ‘homecoming’ in Mexico
Roberto Tetatzin knew he was going to be deported to his native Mexico. Now he and his partner, Judith Cristal Gudino, would have to decide what to do next. Should the girls stay in the U.S. with Gudino, or should the whole family relocate to Mexico?
Amid cries of 'fraud!' and clashes with police and soldiers, Honduras awaits results of presidential vote count
Tension was building in the Honduran capital as residents awaited the final results of vote counting that has dragged on for days, and supporters of a political newcomer who challenged the incumbent president clashed with security forces. The election pitted Salvador Nasralla, a television personality...
Pakistan deploys army in capital after deadly police clash with supporters of radical cleric
Pakistani anti-riot police and paramilitary forces fired tear gas and rubber bullets Saturday to disperse thousands of supporters of a radical cleric who had blocked a key road into the capital for two weeks. Five people were killed and more than 200 injured in the clashes, hospital officials said,...
An Afghan TV network was attacked. Its wounded anchor went back on the air with his hands bandaged
Gunmen disguised as police officers stormed the headquarters of a television station in Kabul on Tuesday, killing at least two employees, wounding 20 and forcing the station off the air for nearly four hours in another audacious attack in the Afghan capital. When Shamshad TV resumed broadcasting,...
Residents say airstrikes kill at least 14 civilians in northern Afghanistan
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan said Sunday that it was investigating reports that at least 14 civilians were killed in airstrikes in the northern province of Kunduz, where U.S. and Afghan forces have been waging a heavy battle against Taliban militants. Local officials said the victims included...
Pakistan gets a grip on a region known as a nexus of terror — but residents pay a price for peace
For three years, he had lived outside his home province of North Waziristan, one of the most dangerous places in the world. One night in January, 22-year-old Zafarullah came home. Mounds of bricks were strewn where his family’s house had been. In the morning, when there was enough light to see,...
'What kind of justice is this?' A cry from Pakistan's remote tribal lands
A frail Shah Khan Kukikhel was walking through the rubble of what used to be his brother’s home. The trouble, he recalled, had begun after his 19-year-old nephew began to leave the family compound for days at a time. “We got worried, we made him swear on the Koran that he was not involved in any...
Afghan official: Suicide attack in central Kabul kills three
An Afghan official says at least three people were killed after a suicide bomber carried out an attack in central Kabul, near the U.S. Embassy. The target of the attack was not immediately known and no group has claimed responsibility for the bombing. Wahid Mujro, spokesman for the Health Ministry,...
'Every attack is a massacre': Afghanistan's Shiite minority increasingly targeted in their places of worship
Dozens of men gathered in a dust-blown graveyard Saturday to pay their last respects to 83-year-old Karbalai Mohammad Anwar Noori, one of at least 50 people killed in a suicide bombing the night before at a nearby mosque in western Kabul. As Noori’s sons and nephews fought back tears, a tall, turbaned...
Two mosques bombed in Afghanistan as death toll in a week of attacks climbs to nearly 200
A suicide bomber blew himself up inside a mosque packed with worshipers in Kabul on Friday evening, killing 39 people and wounding dozens as the toll from a week of devastating bombings in Afghanistan continued to rise. It was the second time in less than two months that militants attacked a Shiite...
Using a grim new tactic — the Humvee bomb — Taliban kill 43 in attack on Afghan army camp
The Taliban has a new tactic in the Afghan war, and the group has used it to devastating effect twice in three days. Taliban insurgents packed two Humvees stolen from Afghan security forces with explosives, detonated the vehicles outside an army base in the south and then stormed the base in an...
Pakistan's former prime minister Nawaz Sharif is indicted on corruption charges
A Pakistani court on Thursday indicted former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif as well as his daughter and son-in-law on corruption charges stemming from documents leaked from a Panama law firm. A lawyer for the 67-year-old Sharif, who is currently in London, where his wife is receiving medical treatment,...
Former hostage Caitlan Boyle reportedly hospitalized
Joshua Boyle, a Canadian who was rescued with his family last week by Pakistani troops, said Tuesday that his wife had to be rushed to the hospital and remains there. Boyle told the Associated Press in an email that Caitlan Boyle was admitted Monday. His email did not specify why she was taken...
Taliban attacks across Afghanistan leave 74 dead, hundreds wounded
Taliban militants launched a series of bombings across Afghanistan, targeting police and government facilities in attacks that killed 74 people and wounded more than 200, officials said Tuesday. In the deadliest attack, Taliban militants detonated car bombs and then stormed a police training center...
In Canada, freed hostage says Afghan captors killed his infant child and raped his wife
Former hostage Joshua Boyle returned Saturday to his parents' home in Canada where he said full medical exams were being arranged for himself and his family after they were rescued from the captivity of the Taliban-linked extremist Haqqani network in Afghanistan. Boyle said earlier at Toronto's...
U.S. woman and her family freed after being held 5 years by Taliban-linked group
U.S. and Pakistani officials said Thursday that they had rescued an American woman, her Canadian husband and their three young children from captivity by a militant network linked to the Taliban. Pakistani officials said their army and intelligence agencies conducted the rescue operation based...
Five reported killed in Afghan suicide bombing
A suicide bomber blew himself up outside a mosque in the Afghan capital on Friday, killing five people and wounding 29 others, authorities said, in the latest attack to target the country's minority Shiites. Mohammad Salim Rasuli, chief of Kabul hospitals, confirmed the fatalities from the attack,...
U.S. missile malfunctioned during airstrike, wounding at least five civilians in Kabul, officials say
A malfunctioning missile during a U.S. airstrike caused multiple civilian casualties Wednesday during a counterattack near the international airport in Kabul, according to NATO officials in Afghanistan. At least five civilians were injured during an airstrike on insurgents who had fired rockets...
After tough Trump speech, Pakistan scrambles to answer U.S. demands in Afghanistan
Pakistan, facing growing pressure internally and from the United States about the relationship between the two countries, is weighing how to respond to U.S. demands that it do more to help stop the fighting in Afghanistan. U.S. envoys have renewed calls on Pakistan to crack down on the Haqqani...
Three killed in bombing outside a cricket stadium in Kabul
A suicide bomber struck outside a cricket stadium during a match in Afghanistan's capital Wednesday, killing at least three people and wounding seven others, officials said.Kabul police spokesman Basir Mujahid said hundreds of people were inside watching a match when the bomber struck outside the...
U.S. military apologizes for 'highly offensive' leaflets it distributed in Afghanistan
The U.S. military in Afghanistan apologized Wednesday for distributing leaflets featuring an image “highly offensive” to Muslims. The leaflets dropped Tuesday night over parts of Parwan province showed the Shahada, the Muslim profession of faith, printed on the image of a dog, an animal viewed...
Pakistan court convicts two policemen for failing to protect assassinated former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto
A prosecutor says a Pakistani court has sentenced two former police officers to 17 years in prison for failing to provide adequate security to assassinated former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in 2007.Khawaja Imtiaz says the anti-terrorism court also acquitted five suspected militants of aiding...
Death toll in Kabul mosque attack reaches 28, with more than 50 wounded
The death toll in an attack on a Shiite mosque in the Afghan capital during Friday prayers rose to at least 28, including women and children, the chief of Kabul's hospitals said Saturday. Mohammad Salim Rasouli said more than 50 others were wounded in the attack a day earlier that went on for hours...
At least 20 killed in mosque attack in Afghan capital
Militants stormed a packed Shiite mosque in the Afghan capital during Friday prayers in an attack that lasted for hours and ended with at least 20 worshipers killed and 50 others, many of them children, seriously wounded, an official said. Two of the assailants blew themselves up and another two...
Pakistan finds itself on the defensive in Trump's Afghan war strategy
It feels like a lifetime ago, but it was just in November, weeks after his election, that then-President-elect Trump was lavishing praise on Pakistan, calling it a “fantastic place … doing amazing work.” But as Trump said in outlining his new strategy in South Asia, things look different from behind...
Trump to announce new strategy — and probably more troops — for Afghanistan
President Trump has settled on a new military strategy in Afghanistan after months of bitter internal debates by his national security team and will announce a plan Monday expected to provide U.S. commanders with additional troops and broader authority to pursue militant forces. Trump is expected...
Nobel winner Malala Yousafzai to study at Oxford
Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai, who was shot by a Taliban gunman at age 15 for speaking out for the right to an education, has been accepted to the University of Oxford. The 20-year-old activist shared word of her acceptance to the school on Twitter and included the screenshot of her “Congratulations”...
Egypt mourns death of actress, singer and cultural icon Shadia
Shadia, an Egyptian actress and singer who captivated millions for decades with memorable singles and iconic film roles but then vanished from public view and lived a life of seclusion, has died. Born Fatimah Shaker in 1931 but known throughout her career by her single stage name, Shadia suffered...
The rise and fall of Zimbabwe's longtime leader: Robert Mugabe
The rule of Robert Mugabe, a once-respected liberation leader turned feared dictator and international pariah, came to an unflattering end Tuesday when the Zimbabwean president was forced to relinquish his 37-year hold on power in the face of possible impeachment. The future of the 93-year-old...
Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe, facing impeachment, resigns after 37 years in power
Robert Mugabe, the revolutionary war hero who helped end white minority rule in Zimbabwe but replaced it with decades of brutality and corruption, had always said he would give up power on his own terms and rule until he was 100. In the end, he did neither: The 93-year-old president, facing impeachment,...
Zimbabwe's Mugabe may face impeachment after failing to meet resignation deadline
Zimbabwe’s ruling party expects to start impeachment proceedings against longtime President Robert Mugabe in parliament Tuesday, after he failed to meet a deadline set by the party for him to step down. Mugabe has clung to the presidency amid increasing pressure from party leaders, much of the...
Zimbabwe's Mugabe remains president, at least temporarily, after ruling party fires him
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, who was widely expected to resign Sunday after the ruling party sacked him and threatened to impeach him if he did not leave office, conceded a need for change but remained in the leadership post. Mugabe, stripped of executive power when the military took control...
After backlash, Trump says he will postpone plan to allow elephant trophy imports
In a surprise move, the Trump administration will suspend its recent decision to allow hunters to bring elephant trophies back to the U.S. from parts of southern Africa, President Trump announced Friday night on Twitter. The move comes as celebrities, politicians and even some Trump supporters...
Thousands march through Zimbabwe's capital to demand Mugabe's departure
During elections nine years ago, Zimbabwe ruling party thugs banged on Nonoza Ncube’s door at 2 a.m., took her to a temporary military-style base and beat her on her back and legs with batons. Yet when she heard that ruling party ZANU-PF war veterans were staging a mass rally in Harare, the nation’s...
The Shakespearean excesses and political intrigues that drove Africa's oldest strongman out of power
Robert Mugabe, remote, aloof and arrogant, regards himself as the last of the African liberation war heroes, with no living peers left. He carefully created the militaristic state that kept him in power for 37 years, forgetting that once he lost control of the generals, he was finished.
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe makes first public appearance since military takeover
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe’s public appearance at a university graduation ceremony Friday — leaving the confinement of his mansion — was stage-managed by the military to deflect accusations it took control of the country Wednesday in a military coup. The move was designed to assure neighboring...
Zimbabwe military warns it will act against those who do not cooperate
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, whose 37 years in power make him one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders, faced his end game Wednesday, after the military placed him under house arrest and seized control of the country to end a prolonged succession crisis. The 93-year-old ruler was being held...
'I am their family.' In Tunisia, one man's mission to bury the migrants who die at sea
Despite his injured ankle, he ran as best he could in his rubber boots to reach the graves. Chamseddine Marzoug was in a hurry, taking advantage of a break in torrential rains to check the swelling cemetery he has spent the last dozen years building for hundreds of African migrants who never made...
Zimbabwe's military intervenes in political crisis as explosions and gunfire are heard in the capital
Zimbabwe’s military revealed Wednesday that it had in effect taken control of the country, moving to end a political crisis on a chaotic night that saw explosions and gunfire erupting in the capital, Harare. The military said in a statement that President Robert Mugabe remained president and commander...
A 40% price cut hasn't helped Uber in Africa’s biggest economy
For the past two years, Frederick Aguinede has spent most of his time behind the wheels of cars he will never own. He wakes before dawn, turns on his Uber app and doesn’t return to his apartment until long after dusk — usually clocking more than 12 hours on the road each day. On paper, it looks...
Ousted Zimbabwe vice president flees into exile, claiming assassination attempts against him
He was one of Zimbabwe’s most powerful men: right-hand man to President Robert Mugabe with strong links to the security services. But Emmerson Mnangagwa’s fall and sudden removal as vice president was swift after he fell afoul of Mugabe’s ambitious wife, Grace, who recently called him a “snake”...
American television producer jailed for trying to 'overthrow' Zimbabwe's President Mugabe with a tweet
Zimbabwean police on Friday jailed and charged U.S. human rights activist and television producer Martha O’Donovan for attempting to overthrow the government of President Robert Mugabe by allegedly sending out a tweet deemed to be offensive, according to lawyers. Police raided her apartment in...
Kenya's electoral commission calls President Kenyatta the winner in disputed repeat vote
Kenya’s electoral commission Monday pronounced President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner of a bitterly disputed presidential election last week that saw low voter turnout amid an opposition boycott and violence. The announcement of Kenyatta’s victory did nothing to resolve Kenya’s deepest political crisis...
Clashes and violence continue after Kenya's disputed repeat presidential election
Kenya’s election commission on Friday abandoned an effort to hold presidential election votes in four counties in the western part of the country, as clashes continued between protesters and police in opposition strongholds after Thursday’s chaotic repeat presidential election. The new election...
Kenya's political crisis deepens as many voters boycott presidential election
Kenya’s political crisis deepened Thursday as many Kenyans stayed away from a repeat presidential election because of an opposition boycott, protests and security fears. The low turnout raised further doubts about the credibility of a disputed process that has seen violence and death threats against...
A Senegal-based humanitarian group helps African communities reject harmful practices against women
As Molly Melching looks at the work done by her human rights group, Tostan, in Africa during the last 26 years, she’s especially proud of some key milestones: More than 20,000 women in eight African countries where the group has worked have been selected for leadership positions in their communities....
Kenya's democracy is tested as protests spread over disputed rerun election
Kenya faces its deepest democratic crisis in nearly a decade, with a rerun election due to proceed Thursday though the vote lacks legitimacy among opposition supporters and may trigger violence, according to analysts. The election process, plagued with killings, hate speech, death threats, attacks...
Pentagon investigating troubling questions after deadly Niger ambush
Defense Secretary James N. Mattis, troubled by a lack of information two weeks after an ambush on a special operations patrol in Niger left four U.S. soldiers dead, is demanding a timeline of what is known about the attack, as a team of investigators sent to West Africa begins its work. The growing...
After Niger attack, a look at clandestine jihadis posing a growing danger to U.S. forces in Africa
As America increases its military footprint in some of Africa’s most dangerous trouble spots, confronting extremist affiliates of Al Qaeda and Islamic State, the risk of intelligence failures and more combat deaths is mounting. U.S. special forces who accompanied Niger’s military at a meeting of...
Kenyan election official flees to U.S. in fear for her life, saying new election will not be fair
A repeat presidential election in Kenya due next week was plunged into crisis Wednesday when senior electoral officials spoke out against threats and interference from politicians, and a senior electoral commissioner fled to the U.S. citing death threats. With a new election due in just over a...
A Somalia bombing killed hundreds; officials figure it must have been Shabab extremists — again
A push by security forces in Somalia to stop Al Qaeda-linked Shabab has cost the extremist group some territory and leaders. But the group has proved resilient. So although as of Monday the Shabab had not claimed responsibility for the weekend truck bombing in Mogadishu that killed more than 300...
Death toll rises to 276 in Somalia's worst bomb attack
Hundreds of Somalis marched in the streets of Mogadishu on Sunday to protest a deadly blast that killed 276 people in a busy shopping district in the country’s deadliest single bomb attack. About 300 others were reported injured in the attack, Information Minister Abdirahman O. Osman said. It occurred...
Judge seeks removal of immunity, arrest of former president of Argentina
A federal judge on Thursday asked Argentina’s Senate to allow the arrest of former President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner on a charge of treason for allegedly covering up the role of Iranians in a 1994 bomb attack on a Jewish center. Judge Claudio Bonadio asked lawmakers to remove Fernandez’s...
In Honduras, electoral board agrees to opposition demands for partial recount
Honduran electoral authorities on Tuesday agreed to opposition demands for a recount of returns from more than 5,000 polling places, representing almost 30% of all voting sites in last week’s disputed presidential election. “We are going to review the [ballots], and if there are discrepancies we...
Incumbent president leads in disputed Honduran elections, but no winner declared
Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez, seeking a second term in office, continued to hold a slim lead Monday as officials largely completed the count in disputed national balloting. But eight days after the voting, authorities had yet to proclaim a winner as the opposition continued to allege...
Protesters against inequality occupied vacant land in Brazil. Now they're a mini-city of 8,000 families
The first 500 arrived at sunrise. They trooped past the handful of homes on their left, up the dusty hill at the end of the street and through the single row of sparse trees to the vacant lot, plastic tarps folded under their arms and wooden posts in hand. While some quickly mounted makeshift shacks...
Worried that their election is being stolen, Hondurans take to the streets in droves
Thousands of opposition backers waving banners and shouting anti-government ballads marched through the streets of the Honduran capital Sunday in a boisterous but peaceful repudiation of the administration of President Juan Orlando Hernandez. The mostly young demonstrators repeated the president’s...
6.0 earthquake strikes Ecuador's coast
A magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck along the coast of Ecuador on Sunday in the same area where a deadly tremor left hundreds dead last year. President Lenin Moreno said there were no immediate reports of victims or major damage from the quake, which jolted many Ecuadoreans who were still in bed...
Human rights groups denounce Honduras curfew as presidential vote count drags on
An uneasy calm fell over this Central American capital Saturday as police and soldiers enforced a curfew imposed following days of protests and unrest in the aftermath of disputed national elections. The final results of presidential balloting last Sunday remained unclear as the opposition demanded...
Honduras declares curfew as street violence persists amid disputed election count
The government of Honduras declared a nationwide curfew late Friday in an effort to quell an outbreak of violent street clashes, road blockades and looting that have followed last Sunday’s disputed presidential election. The imposition of a curfew for 10 days between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. — suspending...
She begged him not to leave Mexico again. But the lure of America was powerful, and deadly
Agustín Poblete Ortega knew that sneaking into the United States had become more dangerous than ever. Yet he yearned for paychecks that would allow him to save a little, instead of just barely scraping by. "This is the last time," he promised his younger brother before he left.
In Mexico, they made a new American dream — minus their kids
When the Almanzas returned to their hometown of Malinalco in 2012, they were not alone. Census data shows more than 1 million Mexicans and their families left the U.S. for Mexico between 2009 and 2014, and fewer made their way north, a demographic shift that is reshaping the immigration equation.
For a deported man and his family, an uneasy ‘homecoming’ in Mexico
Roberto Tetatzin knew he was going to be deported to his native Mexico. Now he and his partner, Judith Cristal Gudino, would have to decide what to do next. Should the girls stay in the U.S. with Gudino, or should the whole family relocate to Mexico?
Amid cries of 'fraud!' and clashes with police and soldiers, Honduras awaits results of presidential vote count
Tension was building in the Honduran capital as residents awaited the final results of vote counting that has dragged on for days, and supporters of a political newcomer who challenged the incumbent president clashed with security forces. The election pitted Salvador Nasralla, a television personality...
Mexican lawmakers approve bill allowing army to act as police
Mexico's ruling party rammed a bill through Congress' lower house Thursday giving the military legal justification to act as police, steamrolling objections by rights groups and opposition legislators who said it would effectively militarize the country. Supporters of the bill said Mexico's armed...
Honduran president pulls ahead in vote, but opposition says election is being stolen
Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez has pulled ahead of challenger Salvador Nasralla in a new partial vote count, amplifying claims by Nasralla’s supporters that Sunday’s presidential election is being stolen and edging Honduras toward a political crisis. Nasralla, a television personality...
Honduras still hasn't declared a winner in its presidential vote — and tensions are rising
Protesters from opposing political parties took to the streets Tuesday in Honduras, where election officials still have not declared a winner in Sunday’s presidential vote amid allegations of fraud. International monitors called for a speedier and more transparent vote count as several prominent...
Challenger leading in Honduras presidential vote, but both sides claim victory
The main challenger to Honduras’ president held an unexpected lead Monday in early election returns, but the release of updated results essentially ground to a halt and both sides claimed victory while rallying supporters to the streets. The country’s electoral court reported in the evening that...
On the shadowlands of the frontier, a U.S. border agent plans his future in Mexico
More than half of U.S. Border Patrol agents are Latinos, and many have closer ties to Mexico than to the United States. Ramiro Cordero spends his days patrolling the El Paso sector, and his nights dreaming of the day he'll retire in Mexico.
Colombian coca farmers, facing a threat to their livelihood, resist U.S.-backed efforts to eradicate cocaine production
Colombian farmers resist U.S.-backed efforts to eradicate cocaine production
Argentina says missing submarine suffered explosion but doesn't know the crew's fate
An international flotilla of ships and several high-tech aircraft searching for a missing Argentine submarine focused on an area in the southern Atlantic Ocean on Thursday after authorities confirmed acoustical evidence of an explosion coming from the lost vessel with 44 crew members aboard. The...
What we know and don't know about Argentina's missing submarine
A full week after the Argentine submarine’s disappearance, there was no news Wednesday, encouraging or otherwise, about the whereabouts of the San Juan and its 44 crew members. The diesel-electric powered sub disappeared Nov. 15 as it cruised northward from the southern port of Ushuaia toward the...
In cycling-obsessed Colombia, he dreamed of glory. But first he needed a bike
Steven Motavita was 13 when he bought a mountain bicycle to compete in local road races. It was cheap, with a heavy aluminum frame and fat tires unsuited for competition, but it was all he could afford with the money he made harvesting potatoes with two uncles who once shared his great cycling...
Two high-profile killings in Mexico stoke outrage about nationwide surge in slayings
Public indignation about Mexico’s surging homicide rate has followed the two latest high-profile killings — those of a human rights ombudsman in Baja California Sur state and a telecommunications executive outside Mexico City. President Enrique Peña Nieto denounced the killing of Adolfo Lagos Espinosa,...
A mother waits at the edge of the ocean for a son whose submarine has gone missing
Family members of 44 crew members of the Argentine submarine missing for nearly a week have maintained brave faces even as each passing hour complicates chances for a rescue of their loved ones lost at sea. “Every so often I go to the edge of the ocean and ask that my son be returned to me,” said...
Sounds heard in deep ocean were not distress signals from missing submarine, Argentine navy says
Hopes that strange sounds detected on the ocean floor might be distress signals from a missing Argentine submarine crew were dashed Monday night after an analysis indicated they were not metallic in nature. Earlier in the day, Argentine navy spokesman Enrique Balbi said the noises picked up by...
Chile's presidential race appears headed for a December runoff
Businessman Sebastian Piñera, who was Chile’s president from 2010 to 2014, appeared headed for a victory in presidential elections Sunday, though a runoff was expected with the second-place finisher, according to partial returns. Piñera and the other candidates seemed likely to fall short of the...
China's 'sexy cyborg' took on Silicon Valley bro culture — and won
There’s no mistaking Naomi Wu amid Shenzhen’s deliverymen and investors. Her long, auburn-dyed hair falls over tight, low-cut tops; her miniskirts reveal more. Wu often wears these outfits in do-it-yourself videos that show her devising an LED-lit skirt or creating heels that hide hacking tools....
Taiwan has statues of him everywhere. Now many want Chiang Kai-shek's image removed
Across Taiwan, his image and name are everywhere — on statues and street signs and at a lavish memorial hall in the capital. Chiang Kai-shek was long heralded as a national hero who worked to unify China and fought both the Japanese and the communists. But now many Taiwanese view Chiang as a despot...
A young corruption investigator is killed in Afghanistan. Why didn't his U.S.-trained agency do more to protect him?
When 22-year-old Almar Habibzai was shot outside his house in Kabul, it raised troubling questions about the leadership of the FBI-trained Major Crimes Task Force.
U.S. airstrikes rise sharply in Afghanistan — and so do civilian deaths
Residents of a farming area in eastern Afghanistan say 10 villagers were killed when a U.S. airstrike hit their truck in August. The U.S. military has pushed back strongly against reports of civilian casualties.
Pope Francis defends public silence over plight of Rohingya refugees
Pope Francis on Saturday defended his silence in Myanmar over the plight of Rohingya refugees, saying a public denunciation would have “slammed the door in the face” of his hosts and prevented his message from being heard. Francis said he chose instead to speak in general terms about human rights...
Pope says 'Rohingya' in emotional encounter with refugees
Pope Francis asked for forgiveness Friday from refugees in Bangladesh for all the hurt and persecution they have endured, demanded their rights be recognized and pronounced the word he had so assiduously avoided only days earlier in Myanmar: "Rohingya." In a deeply moving encounter, Francis greeted...
Ex-Marine sentenced to life in prison in murder and rape of Okinawa woman
A Japanese court on Friday convicted a U.S. military contractor of murder and rape charges in the death of an Okinawa woman and sentenced him to life in prison. The Naha District Court also found Kenneth Shinzato, a former Marine, guilty of abandoning the victim's body, court officials said. The...
San Diego couple arrested in Thailand for baring their backsides at a religious site
Thai authorities arrested two American tourists this week for baring their rear ends at a Bangkok Buddhist temple and posting pictures online. They could theoretically spend up to seven years in prison. The men have been identified as Joseph Dasilva, 38, and Travis Dasilva, 36 — minor Instagram...
Pope lands in Bangladesh with Rohingya crisis looming large
Pope Francis arrived Thursday in Bangladesh for the second leg of his six-day trip to Asia with the Rohingya crisis looming large. Francis arrived in the capital amid tight airport security and much anticipation. Huge banners with pictures of the pope and Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina...
In Beijing, a mass eviction leads to a rare public display of rage
Sun Di arrived in Beijing with a dream. In May, the 28-year-old moved to Zhouying village, a swath of low-budget apartment blocks on the city’s outskirts. He found a menial job at a pharmaceuticals company but aspired to start his own business. Then came the evictions. On Nov. 18, a fire tore through...
North Korea's missile launch is a triumph for the rogue nation, 'worrisome' for the world
For more than two months, North Korea refrained from public displays of its nuclear and ballistic missile technology, offering guarded hope that the communist nation had paused its ambitions — at least for a bit. Such optimism disappeared on Wednesday when United States and South Korean military...
Could a North Korean missile hit Washington? Latest ICBM launch suggests it's possible
North Korea on Wednesday test-launched a ballistic missile for the first time since September, its latest provocation that could further exacerbate tensions with the international community. The launch occurred at 3:17 a.m. from Pyongsong, in South Pyongan province, and the missile flew into the...
China sentences Taiwanese man to 5 years in prison for advocating democracy
A court in China sentenced a man from Taiwan to five years in prison Tuesday over his advocacy of democracy, a verdict that could drive the rival governments further apart instead of nudging them toward Beijing’s eventual goal of unification. A court in southern city of Yueyang convicted Lee Ming-che,...
Hillary Clinton, taking a different tone than Trump, hits China on human rights and South China Sea
Hillary Clinton spoke to the Chinese audience as if she were giving a presidential address. The former White House contender delivered a pointed, forceful attack Tuesday aimed at President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping, with whom the U.S. leader claims a unique chemistry. Her remarks —...
Pope demands rights for all in Myanmar without referencing ‘Rohingya'
Pope Francis insisted Tuesday that Myanmar's future depends on respecting the rights of each ethnic group, an indirect show of support for Rohingya Muslims who have been subject to decades of discrimination and a recent military crackdown described by the U.N. as a textbook campaign of “ethnic...
With Rohingya crisis looming, pope holds 'courtesy visit' with Myanmar military chief
Pope Francis opened a diplomatically fraught trip to Myanmar and Bangladesh on Monday by immediately diving into the crisis over Myanmar's crackdown on Rohingya Muslims: He met with the country's military chief, even before beginning the official program of his trip. The Vatican didn't provide...
South Korea's loudspeakers blast North Korea with word of defecting soldier's ill health
South Korea’s high-decibel loudspeakers on the border with longtime foe North Korea have at times blasted messages intended to inform, agitate, or taunt people on the other side. The nation’s latest blaring border announcement says that one of communist North Korea’s soldiers defected two weeks...
Central Asian migrants caught in Turkey's anti-terror raids
The last time Anurkhol Bipolotov saw her husband, Fakhriddin, was across a street, outside a police station in Istanbul, on March 9. “He couldn’t speak, and I asked to speak with him, but they shouted, ‘You cannot speak.’ Then they sent him to Uzbekistan,” she recalled. “Now I have no idea where...
Explosion in China port kills 2, injures 30
An explosion in a port city south of Shanghai on Sunday killed two people and injured at least 30 as it knocked down buildings and left streets littered with damaged cars and debris, the government and news reports said. The early morning explosion struck a riverfront neighborhood in Ningbo, one...
Chinese police detain woman suspected of abusing children at Beijing kindergarten
Authorities in China detained a woman Saturday on suspicion of abusing children at a Beijing kindergarten run by a U.S.-listed company in a case that has caused nationwide anger. Police in Beijing’s Chaoyang district said in a statement that an investigation into a kindergarten run by Beijing-based...
Pakistan deploys army in capital after deadly police clash with supporters of radical cleric
Pakistani anti-riot police and paramilitary forces fired tear gas and rubber bullets Saturday to disperse thousands of supporters of a radical cleric who had blocked a key road into the capital for two weeks. Five people were killed and more than 200 injured in the clashes, hospital officials said,...
In first papal visit to Myanmar, Pope Francis faces a dilemma: whether to say 'Rohingya'
In August, responding to the first reports of Rohingya Muslims fleeing an army-led crackdown in Myanmar, Pope Francis called on his flock to pray for “our Rohingya brethren.” “Let all of us ask the Lord to save them, and to raise up men and women of goodwill to help them, who shall give them their...
North Korea reportedly replaces border guards after soldier's defection
North Korea appears to have replaced all of its guards at a jointly patrolled border area where a North Korean soldier defected last week under a hail of gunfire, according to South Korean media. Military officials said Friday they could not confirm the report. Yonhap news agency cited an unnamed...
Many in China outraged by shocking sexual abuse allegations at a kindergarten in Beijing
Several parents have accused a Beijing kindergarten of drugging and sexually abusing their children, causing an upswell of anger on Chinese social media and prompting an investigation into abuse at kindergartens nationwide. Children at a school run by the Beijing-based, New York-listed RYB Education...
Search ends for 3 U.S. sailors missing in Navy aircraft crash
A search ended Friday for three sailors missing in the Philippine Sea since a U.S. Navy aircraft crashed two days earlier, the Navy said. The C-2A “Greyhound" transport aircraft was traveling to the aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan when it crashed. Eight people were rescued quickly and are in good...
Thousands of Catalans rally in Brussels, feeling abandoned by the EU
Tens of thousands of people from Catalonia rallied Thursday in Brussels, decrying what they see as the European Union's failure to help them after a failed independence referendum in the Spanish region. Police said around 45,000 people took to the streets of the Belgian capital for a rally that...
Trump's declaration of Jerusalem as Israel's capital sparks anger across Muslim world and beyond
Fresh anger poured in from across the Muslim world Wednesday as President Trump said the United States recognizes Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, a move that Arab and European leaders have warned could spark violence and destroy any hopes of reviving the Mideast peace process. Israel responded with...
Russian President Vladimir Putin announces reelection bid
After months of speculation about how and when he would declare his candidacy, Russian President Vladimir Putin Wednesday announced his intention to run for reelection in March 2018. Putin, 65, is widely expected to win what will be his sixth term, extending his rule until 2024. He has been either...
Man held in alleged plot to kill British prime minister
A man has been ordered held Wednesday after being accused in a plot to assassinate British Prime Minister Theresa May. Naa’imur Zakariyah Rahman, 20, has been remanded in custody at Westminster Magistrates’ Court. The plan allegedly involved planting a bomb near the entrance of Downing Street and...
Spanish judge withdraws arrest warrant for Catalan leaders who fled
A Spanish judge on Tuesday withdrew international arrest warrants for ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont and four members of his former cabinet who have been fighting extradition from Belgium. A Supreme Court spokesman said that the five could still be arrested if they go back to Spain, however,...
Spanish judge withdraws arrest warrant for Catalan leaders
A Spanish judge has withdrawn the European arrest warrants for ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont and four members of his former cabinet who were fighting extradition from Belgium. The judge says that individual warrants don't apply to a crime committed by them as part of a wider group and...
Britain hoped to initial a 'Brexit' deal, but an old controversy — the border in Ireland — forced a setback
The Irish border question took center stage in Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union on Monday, causing a major setback for Prime Minister Theresa May, who had hoped to conclude an initial agreement but instead was forced to acknowledge talks had faltered. Eighteen months after the...
How a chance meeting with Einstein led to the accidental start of a unique photography career
In 1948, Marilyn Stafford, a young aspiring actress in New York City, tagged along with two friends who traveled to Princeton to film a documentary about Albert Einstein. As they pulled up in front of Einstein’s New Jersey home, one of the friends tossed a 35-millimeter camera to Stafford sitting...
Turkish academic on 269-day hunger strike released from jail
A Turkish academic on hunger strike for nearly nine months to protest her dismissal after last year's failed coup has been released from jail. Nuriye Gulmen was sentenced to six years and three months in prison for “membership in an armed terror group,” referring to a left-wing militant group,...
Dutch autopsy shows dead war criminal had cyanide in system
A former Croatian general who died after swallowing a liquid at a war crimes hearing in the Netherlands had cyanide in his system, Dutch prosecutors said after an autopsy Friday. Preliminary results from a toxicological test revealed "a concentration of potassium cyanide" in Slobodan Praljak's...
Transatlantic rift widens over inflammatory Trump retweets from British far-right group
If President Trump thought a transatlantic outcry over his online sharing of far-right anti-Muslim Twitter posts might begin subsiding Thursday, that seems to have been a political miscalculation. In London, the furor that first stirred Wednesday with the president’s retweeting of videos promoted...
Denounced as racist but retweeted by Trump: What is Britain First?
The tiny but virulent anti-Muslim group Britain First was virtually unknown in the United States until Wednesday, when President Trump retweeted a trio of inflammatory videos posted by one of its leaders. Trump’s online sharing prompted criticism on both sides of the Atlantic, including an unusual...
'I am not a war criminal,' convicted Bosnian Croat cries as he takes a fatal dose of poison
Seconds after a U.N. judge confirmed his 20-year war crimes sentence on Wednesday, former Bosnian Croat military commander Slobodan Praljak shouted, "I am not a war criminal!" threw back his head, drank liquid from a small bottle and told the court he had taken poison. A flustered judge halted...
In unusual criticism, Tillerson slams Russia's 'malicious tactics' ahead of trip to Europe
In some of the toughest criticism of Russia to come out of the Trump administration, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson slammed Moscow on Tuesday for what he called a campaign of force, intimidation and subterfuge in an attempt to overpower neighbors and reassert a position of dominance on the world...
Syrian government delegation to join U.N.-sponsored talks a day late
An eighth round of United Nations-sponsored talks aimed at finding a solution to Syria’s ruinous civil war got under way in Geneva on Tuesday without the participation of representatives from the Syrian government, a sign of their displeasure at the continuing insistence of opposition negotiators...
It's nearly Prince Harry's turn, along with fiancee Meghan Markle, to join Britain's royal history of matrimony
Meghan Markle is many things: an American, a divorcee, a television actress, the daughter of an African-American mother and white father of Dutch-Irish descent, a Catholic and a 36-year-old, which makes her three years older than her fiance, Prince Harry. All of those identities will make her one...
Central Asian migrants caught in Turkey's anti-terror raids
The last time Anurkhol Bipolotov saw her husband, Fakhriddin, was across a street, outside a police station in Istanbul, on March 9. “He couldn’t speak, and I asked to speak with him, but they shouted, ‘You cannot speak.’ Then they sent him to Uzbekistan,” she recalled. “Now I have no idea where...
'I am their family.' In Tunisia, one man's mission to bury the migrants who die at sea
Despite his injured ankle, he ran as best he could in his rubber boots to reach the graves. Chamseddine Marzoug was in a hurry, taking advantage of a break in torrential rains to check the swelling cemetery he has spent the last dozen years building for hundreds of African migrants who never made...
Prince Harry and actress Meghan Markle to wed next year
Actress, humanitarian campaigner, lifestyle blogger — and, next spring, a princess. Palace officials announced Monday that Prince Harry is engaged to Meghan Markle, confirming months of rumors that the couple was close to tying the knot. In some ways, Markle — a mixed-race American raised in California,...
U.S. cutting off supply of weapons to Kurds fighting in Syria
The United States will cut off its supply of arms to Kurdish fighters in Syria, a move by President Trump that is sure to please Turkey but further alienate Syrian Kurds who bore much of the fight against the Islamic State group. In a phone call Friday with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan,...
An awkward partnership might be the solution to Germany's political stalemate
After an inconclusive fall election threatened to paralyze Germany’s leadership, the renewal of an uncomfortable right-left partnership could herald an end to what analysts had been calling the country’s worst post-war political crisis. The center-left Social Democrats abruptly said Friday that...
Genocide conviction of ex-Bosnian Serb commander Ratko Mladic fuels hopes for future accountability
Not since the Nazi era had such atrocities taken place in the heart of Europe. In the streets of Sarajevo, a once-cosmopolitan capital, terrified civilians spent their days dodging snipers’ bullets and shellfire, a years-long urban siege that ultimately left 10,000 people dead. In the supposed...
White nationalist Richard Spencer banned from 26 European nations
A leading figure in the U.S. white nationalist movement said Wednesday that he hasn't received government confirmation of his reported ban from entering more than two dozen European countries. Poland's state-run news agency PAP says Polish authorities banned Richard Spencer from entering 26 countries...
Who are the 11 human rights activists going on trial in Turkey?
Eleven human rights activists — nine Turks, a Swede and a German — are scheduled to appear in court in Istanbul on Wednesday despite an international groundswell of condemnation over the Turkish government’s decision to try them on charges of aiding terrorist organizations. Turkey has been under...
U.N. court sentences Ratko Mladic to life in prison over Bosnia genocide
The United Nations' Yugoslav war crimes tribunal convicted Bosnian Serb military chief Gen. Ratko Mladic on Wednesday of genocide and crimes against humanity, and sentenced him to life in prison for atrocities during Bosnia's 1992-1995 war. Mladic, 75, was found guilty of commanding forces responsible...
Protests flare on 'day of rage' by Palestinians after Trump's Jerusalem pronouncement
Protests erupted throughout the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and cities across the Middle East on Thursday in what was dubbed a “day of rage” after President Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Trump announced on Wednesday that he would “officially recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s...
Trump's declaration of Jerusalem as Israel's capital sparks anger across Muslim world and beyond
Fresh anger poured in from across the Muslim world Wednesday as President Trump said the United States recognizes Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, a move that Arab and European leaders have warned could spark violence and destroy any hopes of reviving the Mideast peace process. Israel responded with...
Trump expected to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital, angering Arab allies
With President Trump poised to do what no other president has been willing to do — move the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem — leaders and analysts in the region warned Tuesday that it could spur insecurity and instability in a part of the world already beset by both. Fulfilling an oft-repeataed...
Deposed strongman Ali Abdullah Saleh killed after switching sides in Yemen's war
Ali Abdullah Saleh, the deposed strongman who led Yemen for more than three decades and colluded with Iran-aligned rebels to topple his successor, was killed Monday as fighting raged between his followers and their former allies, according to officials on both sides. Saleh’s death removes one of...
Yemen's deposed strongman says he is open to talks with Saudi coalition
Yemen’s deposed strongman Ali Abdullah Saleh called Saturday for a popular revolt against his former rebel allies and said he was open to dialogue with the coalition of Persian Gulf states they have been battling for more than two years. Saleh’s offer to “open a new page” with the Saudi Arabia-led...
Gaming is flourishing in the Arab world — and governments are taking notice
For generations of Arab children, the common refrain among parents with ambitions for their offspring has been: “doctor, engineer, lawyer — or don’t bother.” Now there’s a push to add new titles: game developer, e-sports athlete, YouTuber. That is the goal of a slew of governmental bodies here,...
Syrian government delegation to join U.N.-sponsored talks a day late
An eighth round of United Nations-sponsored talks aimed at finding a solution to Syria’s ruinous civil war got under way in Geneva on Tuesday without the participation of representatives from the Syrian government, a sign of their displeasure at the continuing insistence of opposition negotiators...
Little optimism as new round of Syria peace talks set to open
It doesn’t usually bode well for peace talks when the attendance of one of the principals is still up in the air on the eve of the gathering. An eighth round of United Nations-backed talks aimed at finding a political solution to Syria’s grinding civil war was to convene Tuesday in Geneva, but...
Who are Sufi Muslims and why are they the target of Muslim extremists?
When some two dozen militants massacred at least 305 people in the Sinai Peninsula on Friday, they were targeting the Sufi community that worshiped in the area’s Rawda mosque. Even though no group has claimed responsibility, Egyptian state news agency MENA said the attack “appeared” to have been...
'They were shooting anyone who seemed to be breathing.' Survivors recount the horror of Egypt mosque attack
The assailants arrived in five all-terrain vehicles: between 25 and 30 gunmen clad in military-style camouflage pants and black T-shirts and carrying an Islamic State flag. They positioned themselves at the main gate of a Sufi mosque and in its 12 windows. Then, as the imam was about to deliver...
At least 235 killed in Egypt as militants attack Sinai mosque
At least 235 people were killed when gunmen stormed a mosque during Friday prayers in the rugged Sinai Peninsula, setting off explosives and firing on worshipers in what was believed to be the deadliest single attack by Islamist extremists on Egyptian civilians. There was no immediate claim of...
Much remains unclear as Lebanon Prime Minister Saad Hariri suspends his resignation at president's request
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri said Wednesday he would wait before putting his resignation into effect, opening a path to solving a crisis that has thrown the tiny Mediterranean nation into turmoil. Hariri met Wednesday morning with President Michel Aoun to personally tender his resignation...
Trump administration threatens to shut down Palestinian delegation in Washington
The Trump administration is threatening to shutter the Palestinian Authority’s representative office in Washington based on a provision of a U.S. law that has not been previously enforced. The State Department recently informed the Palestinian Authority that if it does not reenter peace negotiations...
Lebanon's prime minister arrives in Paris, heralding the end of one crisis but perhaps starting another
Lebanon’s embattled prime minister, Saad Hariri, met with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Saturday and insisted he would return to Beirut on Wednesday, marking a new chapter in the odd political drama that has thrust Lebanon into the regional rivalry between Saudi Arabia and Iran. ...
If the Middle East is a chessboard, here's how the pieces line up in light of recent developments
For years, Lebanon, often a play thing for foreign powers, had largely avoided becoming a battleground for the region's toxic rivalry between Saudi Arabia and Iran. That may change.
A Saudi prince is shaking up the Middle East — and may be pushing it toward war
From the rocky Mediterranean coast to the warm waters of the Persian Gulf, an upstart young Saudi Arabian crown prince is making waves across the Mideast, exploiting and exacerbating the region’s deep sectarian divides. Why, many wonder, is Mohammed bin Salman, the 32-year-old heir apparent to...
In Iraq, crashing boulders, collapsed homes and a town on edge after powerful earthquake
In the craggy mountains that separate northern Iraq from Iran, people are used to earthquakes. The area sits atop a major fault line that frequently sends shock waves through towns and villages. But few here can recall anything like the magnitude 7.3 temblor that rocked the region Sunday night....
In quake-hit Iranian village, 'people are helping people' as aid is slow to arrive
The residents of Quik Hasan village slept outdoors in the cold and awoke early Tuesday looking for help. Fifty people had died here in a massive earthquake two nights earlier and had been buried by their relatives in makeshift graves. But when aid workers from the Iranian Red Crescent arrived,...
Israel's president tries to soothe rift between Israel and American Jewry
A broad coalition of Jewish organizations has admonished the Israeli government for siding with ultra-Orthodox Jews on two issues that have divided the Jewish community: whether men and women can pray together at the Western Wall and who has the power to perform conversions to Judaism. The Jewish...
At least 345 people killed and thousands injured in magnitude 7.3 earthquake near Iran-Iraq border
Wailing survivors crowded hospital emergency rooms as rescue teams and sniffer dogs combed through rubble for bodies Monday following a powerful earthquake near the Iran-Iraq border that killed more than 340 people and left 6,300 injured, Iranian officials said. The state-run Iranian Students News...
Officials in Iran and Iraq order aid rushed to areas hit by deadly magnitude 7.3 earthquake
A 7.3 earthquake struck near the Iran-Iraq border, killing hundreds of people and injuring thousands.
Lebanese prime minister's TV interview does little to clear up mystery around resignation
It was an appearance that many Lebanese hoped would explain the week’s bizarre events, in which Prime Minister Saad Hariri flew to Saudi Arabia, announced his resignation and triggered widespread speculation that he was being held against his will. Instead, Hariri’s televised interview Sunday,...
Prime minister's disappearance has rare unifying effect on Lebanon
In the fractured politics of Lebanon, leaders of various factions can rarely agree on much. But the uncertain fate of Saad Hariri — who on Nov. 4 announced that he was resigning as prime minister and whose whereabouts and loyalties since have become the stuff of conspiracy theories — has provided...
Islamic State has lost 90% of its territory in Iraq and Syria. Where in the world is Abu Bakr Baghdadi?
As an array of local and international forces close in on Islamic State’s last redoubts in Syria and Iraq, the whereabouts of the extremist group’s secretive leader remain a mystery. A media outlet linked to the Syrian military reported Friday that Abu Bakr Baghdadi had been spotted in the eastern...
Millions at risk of famine in Yemen as Saudi Arabia enforces blockade on most ports
Even for Yemenis accustomed to the brutal economies of life under a years-long siege, the effect of a blockade of all air, sea and land ports into the country was a surprise. “Food merchants immediately doubled all their prices. Fuel, in one moment, disappeared from the markets and the price of...
Thousands of Catalans rally in Brussels, feeling abandoned by the EU
Tens of thousands of people from Catalonia rallied Thursday in Brussels, decrying what they see as the European Union's failure to help them after a failed independence referendum in the Spanish region. Police said around 45,000 people took to the streets of the Belgian capital for a rally that...
Judge seeks removal of immunity, arrest of former president of Argentina
A federal judge on Thursday asked Argentina’s Senate to allow the arrest of former President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner on a charge of treason for allegedly covering up the role of Iranians in a 1994 bomb attack on a Jewish center. Judge Claudio Bonadio asked lawmakers to remove Fernandez’s...
Australian Parliament votes to allow same-sex marriages
The Australian Parliament voted on Thursday to allow same-sex marriage across the nation, following a bitter and divisive debate settled by the government polling voters in a much-criticized ballot survey that strongly endorsed change. The public gallery of the House of Representatives erupted...
Doctors identify brain abnormalities in Cuba attack patients
Doctors treating the U.S. Embassy victims of suspected attacks in Cuba have discovered brain abnormalities as they search for clues to explain hearing, vision, balance and memory damage, the Associated Press has learned. It's the most specific finding to date about physical damage, showing that...
Man held in alleged plot to kill British prime minister
A man has been ordered held Wednesday after being accused in a plot to assassinate British Prime Minister Theresa May. Naa’imur Zakariyah Rahman, 20, has been remanded in custody at Westminster Magistrates’ Court. The plan allegedly involved planting a bomb near the entrance of Downing Street and...
Christine Keeler, model in Britain's notorious sex-and-spy Profumo scandal, dies at 75
Christine Keeler, the central figure in the sex-and-espionage Profumo scandal that rocked Cold War Britain, has died at 75. Her son, Seymour Platt, posted on Facebook that Keeler died Monday at a hospital near Farnborough in southern England. Born in 1943, Keeler was a model and nightclub dancer...
Romania's former King Michael, who ruled during WWII, dies at 96
Former Romanian King Michael I, who was forced to abdicate by the communists in the aftermath of World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Switzerland. He was 96. Michael, who played a pivotal role in Romania's switch to the Allied cause following a coup in 1944, spent decades in exile working...
Kentucky lawyer on the lam in Social Security fraud case is captured in Honduras
A fugitive Kentucky lawyer who disappeared six months ago before facing a prison sentence for his central role in a massive Social Security fraud case has been captured in Honduras and will be returned to the U.S., officials said. Eric Conn was captured by a SWAT team as he came out of a restaurant...
Spanish judge withdraws arrest warrant for Catalan leaders who fled
A Spanish judge on Tuesday withdrew international arrest warrants for ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont and four members of his former cabinet who have been fighting extradition from Belgium. A Supreme Court spokesman said that the five could still be arrested if they go back to Spain, however,...
Spanish judge withdraws arrest warrant for Catalan leaders
A Spanish judge has withdrawn the European arrest warrants for ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont and four members of his former cabinet who were fighting extradition from Belgium. The judge says that individual warrants don't apply to a crime committed by them as part of a wider group and...
Austria's Constitutional Court rules same-sex couples can marry beginning 2019
Austria's Constitutional Court has decided that same-sex couples will be allowed to marry by the beginning of 2019, ruling that the existing laws are discriminatory. Same-sex couples in Austria have been allowed to enter legal partnerships since 2010, but until now haven't been able to marry. The...
United Arab Emirates forms new military and economic partnership with Saudi Arabia
The United Arab Emirates says it has formed a new “joint cooperation committee” with Saudi Arabia to partner on economic and military issues, separate from the Gulf Cooperation Council. The Emirati Foreign Ministry made the announcement early Tuesday ahead of a council meeting in Kuwait, saying...
6.0 earthquake strikes Ecuador's coast
A magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck along the coast of Ecuador on Sunday in the same area where a deadly tremor left hundreds dead last year. President Lenin Moreno said there were no immediate reports of victims or major damage from the quake, which jolted many Ecuadoreans who were still in bed...
Pope Francis defends public silence over plight of Rohingya refugees
Pope Francis on Saturday defended his silence in Myanmar over the plight of Rohingya refugees, saying a public denunciation would have “slammed the door in the face” of his hosts and prevented his message from being heard. Francis said he chose instead to speak in general terms about human rights...
Palestinians warn U.S.: Don't recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital
The Palestinians are warning the United States against recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Mahmoud Habash, an advisor to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, said Saturday that if President Trump were to do so, it would amount to a “complete destruction of the peace process.”...
Final death toll hits 512 in Somalia truck bombing in October
The final death toll in October's massive truck bombing in Somalia's capital is 512 people, according to the committee tasked with looking into the country's worst-ever attack. The final toll is a dramatic increase from previous estimates of more than 350 killed. The committee's report, obtained...
Pope Francis gets laughs in Bangladesh after walking diplomatic tightrope
Pope Francis urged Bangladeshi priests and nuns to resist the "terrorism of gossip" that can tear religious communities apart, delivering one of his trademark, zinger-filled spontaneous speeches to the country's Roman Catholic leadership on Saturday at the close of an otherwise tense and diplomatically...
Turkish academic on 269-day hunger strike released from jail
A Turkish academic on hunger strike for nearly nine months to protest her dismissal after last year's failed coup has been released from jail. Nuriye Gulmen was sentenced to six years and three months in prison for “membership in an armed terror group,” referring to a left-wing militant group,...
Dutch autopsy shows dead war criminal had cyanide in system
A former Croatian general who died after swallowing a liquid at a war crimes hearing in the Netherlands had cyanide in his system, Dutch prosecutors said after an autopsy Friday. Preliminary results from a toxicological test revealed "a concentration of potassium cyanide" in Slobodan Praljak's...
Pope says 'Rohingya' in emotional encounter with refugees
Pope Francis asked for forgiveness Friday from refugees in Bangladesh for all the hurt and persecution they have endured, demanded their rights be recognized and pronounced the word he had so assiduously avoided only days earlier in Myanmar: "Rohingya." In a deeply moving encounter, Francis greeted...
Ex-Marine sentenced to life in prison in murder and rape of Okinawa woman
A Japanese court on Friday convicted a U.S. military contractor of murder and rape charges in the death of an Okinawa woman and sentenced him to life in prison. The Naha District Court also found Kenneth Shinzato, a former Marine, guilty of abandoning the victim's body, court officials said. The...
Mexican lawmakers approve bill allowing army to act as police
Mexico's ruling party rammed a bill through Congress' lower house Thursday giving the military legal justification to act as police, steamrolling objections by rights groups and opposition legislators who said it would effectively militarize the country. Supporters of the bill said Mexico's armed...
Pope lands in Bangladesh with Rohingya crisis looming large
Pope Francis arrived Thursday in Bangladesh for the second leg of his six-day trip to Asia with the Rohingya crisis looming large. Francis arrived in the capital amid tight airport security and much anticipation. Huge banners with pictures of the pope and Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina...
'I am not a war criminal,' convicted Bosnian Croat cries as he takes a fatal dose of poison
Seconds after a U.N. judge confirmed his 20-year war crimes sentence on Wednesday, former Bosnian Croat military commander Slobodan Praljak shouted, "I am not a war criminal!" threw back his head, drank liquid from a small bottle and told the court he had taken poison. A flustered judge halted...
Kenya president sworn in for second term after months-long election turmoil
Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in for a second term Tuesday in what some hoped would be the end of months of election turmoil, which Kenyatta said stretched the country "almost to the breaking point." But violence continued, with at least three people killed as police fired rifles and...
