The most accurate climate change models predict the most alarming consequences, study finds
The study adds to a growing body of bad news about how human activity is changing the planet's climate and how dire those changes will be in the future.
Australian Parliament approves same-sex marriage measure after bitter debate
Lawmakers rejected amendments meant to safeguard freedoms of speech and religion for gay-marriage opponents. The law will likely take effect in about a month, with the first weddings expected about a month later.
North Korean ‘ghost ships’ are washing up on the shores of Japan, prompting questions about why now
Many analysts think it’s a reflection of tougher sanctions imposed to punish the regime, with fishermen running out of fuel as they try to meet increasing quotas.
Palestinians clash with Israeli troops ahead of ‘day of rage’ at Trump’s Jerusalem move
The Hamas militant group urged followers to mount a third intifada, or uprising, against Israel.
FBI director defends bureau’s integrity as GOP lawmakers press him on Trump, Clinton probes
Promising accountability “if that’s appropriate,” Christopher A. Wray told lawmakers, “We make mistakes just like everyone who’s human.”
With pitch for ‘United States of Europe,’ German center-left opts to open talks with Merkel
Germany’s SPD reversed its opposition to another grand coalition while laying out a vision for a more integrated European Union.
Friends and foes of the U.S. denounce Trump’s Jerusalem move
In the Middle East, even staunch ally Saudi Arabia called the decision “irresponsible.” Iraq called it “unjust.”
Argentine ex-president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner charged with treason
Fernández, who enjoys immunity from prosecution as a member of Congress, is accused of covering up Iran’s role in a 1994 terrorist attack.
Hamas has called for a new ‘intifada’ against Israel. Here's what that means.
Could Trump's pronouncement be the final trigger?
U.S. allies reject Trump’s Jerusalem pronouncement as ‘very dangerous’ and ’catastrophic’
Close allies such as Britain, France and Germany had criticized Trump or voiced skepticism ahead of the move.
Why few are celebrating the end of the Islamic State's caliphate, and 6 other global stories
In this occasional series, The Washington Post brings you up to speed on some of the biggest stories of the week.
For Trump, Jerusalem is an extension of a global culture war
There is a simple ideological explanation to Trump's controversial move.
Once again, a government shutdown could mean no pay for deployed U.S. troops
"There's no way to make a shutdown easier,” the Pentagon comptroller said.
Homeland Security to create new office focused on countering weapons of mass destruction
The group will be led by James McDonnell, who heads DHS’s Domestic Nuclear Detection Office.
USOC, NBC respond to Nikki Haley's suggestion that North Korea could cause U.S. to skip Olympics
The U.N. ambassador did not confirm that it was a “done deal” the U.S. government would recommend that its athletes compete in PyeongChang amid rising tensions in the region.
Tillerson vows no warming with Russia until it leaves Ukraine
A proposal for U.N. peacekeepers in Ukraine underscored tense U.S.-Russia relations.
Hamas has called for a new ‘intifada’ against Israel. Here's what that means.
Could Trump's pronouncement be the final trigger?
North Korean ‘ghost ships’ are washing up on the shores of Japan. Why?
Sanctions appear to be hurting, with fishermen running out of fuel as they try to meet increasing quotas.
U.S. allies reject Trump’s Jerusalem pronouncement as ‘very dangerous’ and ’catastrophic’
Close allies such as Britain, France and Germany had criticized Trump or voiced skepticism ahead of the move.
Why few are celebrating the end of the Islamic State's caliphate, and 6 other global stories
In this occasional series, The Washington Post brings you up to speed on some of the biggest stories of the week.
For Trump, Jerusalem is an extension of a global culture war
There is a simple ideological explanation to Trump's controversial move.
Where would a U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem actually go?
Finding space to build a new embassy in the contested city won't be easy.
VA tried to reallocate $460 million earmarked for homeless veterans. Now it says that won't happen.
Funds that were earmarked to help chronically homeless veterans find a home are now at the discretion of local VA hospitals to use for whatever they need.
Trump had for months been determined to move U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem
The president set aside warnings from senior advisers to deliver on a key campaign pledge.
There are four times as many U.S. troops in Syria as previously acknowledged by the Pentagon
'That's where we are now,” a U.S. military spokesman said.
In Jerusalem, Trump’s speech sparks scenes of joy, outrage
On a rainy day that curbed public demonstrations, Palestinians predicted another intifada and Israelis voiced gratitude.
Trump calls on Saudi Arabia to allow food, other aid to reach Yemen
What amounted to an unusually harsh rebuke came as the Saudi-led coalition intensified airstrikes.
Polish finance chief Morawiecki to be new prime minister
Poland’s prime minister resigned Thursday and will be replaced by Finance Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, as the conservative ruling party took the risk of trading a popular leader for a former international banker who seemed better-suited to representing Poland to critics outside the country.
The Latest: Somalia calls Trump Jerusalem move ‘dangerous’
The Latest on the fallout from President Donald Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital (all times local):
Poland: Time abroad, in finance seen as assets of PM nominee
Poland Finance Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, a former banker, would bring to the office of prime minister economic and international experience seen as assets while the country faces criticism from other European Union members for policies that have aroused concerns of democratic backsliding.
Argentine judge seeks arrest of ex-President Fernandez
A federal judge on Thursday asked Argentina’s Senate to allow the arrest of former President Cristina Fernandez on a charge of treason for allegedly covering up the role of Iranians in a 1994 bomb attack on a Jewish center.
Palestinians protest Trump move, more unrest feared
Thousands of Palestinian protesters clashed with Israeli forces in east Jerusalem and the West Bank, demonstrators in the Gaza Strip burned U.S. flags and pictures of President Donald Trump, and a top Palestinian official said Vice President Mike Pence would not be welcome in the West Bank, in a show of rage Thursday over the American decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.
UN says 230 reportedly killed in Yemen in recent conflict
The U.N. humanitarian coordinator in Yemen says some 230 people have reportedly been killed and over 400 injured in six days of intensified conflict in the capital Sanaa.
